
CONSTRAINTS ON WORD LEARNING: SPECULATIONS ABOUT THEIR NATURE, ORIGINS, AND DOMAIN SPECIFICITY

http://users.ecs.soton.ac.uk/harnad/Papers/Py104/markman.lang.html

- constraints as default assumptions/probabilistic evidence but NOT immune to input; can be overridden ~ imprinting (tuned by environment)
- important for learning non-object labels (Markman and wachtel, 1988)
- correcting overextensions

Clark (1983, 1987) postulates another related principle to help account for semantic acquisition. (See Markman, 1989 for a comparison of lexical contrast and mutual exclusivity) She argues, following Bolinger (1977), that every word in a dictionary contrasts with every other word and that to acquire words children must assume that word meanings are contrastive. 

-  indirect means, without anyone actually pointing to and labeling an object. 

ME: (Au & Glusman, 1990; Dockrell & Campbell, 1986; Golinkoff et al., 1985; Hutchinson, 1986; Markman & Wachtel, 1988; Merriman & Bowman, 1989).

Evidence against lexical gap: Markman and wasow

as youn as 18month olds
Liittschwager & Markman, 1991 - reject second label

- hierarchy of constriants

In sum, the whole object constraint serves as a first hypothesis that can be overridden in a variety of different ways ranging from lack of environmental support (e.g. when there are no salient objects around), to lack of joint focus of attention on an object (as when an adult fails to attend to a candidate object), to its coming into conflict with other word learning constraints (e.g., mutual exclusivity) to its conflict with other aspects of the linguistic system (e.g. grammatical form class).

- "most likely domain general"
classical conditioning - blocking and overshadowing'
discounting principle (Lepper)
widespread strategy for first systematizing a new domain of knowledge

The mutual exclusivity bias in language, then, could be one instantiation of a widespread attempt to find simple, regular, relations between elements in a domain. Mutual exclusivity, attribute discounting, blocking and overshadowing all cause animals and humans to overlook some regularity, to fail to learn something that could be useful. They are not flawless, but given limited resources may be highly adaptive.

"like kind rather than to strong associates. The argument includes the claim that extensive experience with language does not form the basis of the constraint. That is, these word-learning mechanisms are not learned generalizations from language input."

does not require lots of language input

Redundancy = GOOD
Redundancy of Mechanisms. Another characteristic of biological solutions to important problems is that there tend to be multiple mechanisms for achieving the same end (Rozin, 1976; Rozin & Schull, 19xx; Shettleworth, 1983). Equipping an animal with redundant means of achieving the same outcome offers a greater likelihood of success because any single mechanism has some probability of failing. Several mechanisms can work together to achieve a given end as when motivational, attentional, and learning abilities converge on a given solution. Alternatively, some mechanisms can serve as backup when dominant means fail. The example described earlier of how migratory birds navigate by magnetism only when the position of the sun is unavailable is one such example (Keeton, 1974; Shettleworth, 19xx).

For example, Gathercole (1987) has argued that the mutual exclusivity assumption falls out of pragmatic rather than lexical principles


 ATTENTION TO ONLY A SINGLE MECHANISM IS ONLY AN EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH (DOESN"T REFLECT REALITY)

 Experimental rigor requires that to document a given word-learning bias guides children's hypotheses one must rule out alternative explanations (including input) as possible contributing factors in a given experiment. But this should not be confused with a claim that in naturally occurring word-learning these factors are irrelevant or should should systematically conflict with the postulated word-learning assumptions. On the contrary, redundancy and coordination of word-learning biases and other sources of information should be common. Acquiring vocabulary is essential for language learning and any abilities children have to infer the communicative intent of the speaker, to retain information about past uses of words, to analyze the social situation in which a word is used will be exploited along with word-learning constraints to solve this problem.

principles = string changes over time
 n3C - from experience - devleopmeted later

 gathercole 1987/1989 - journal of child language - ME comes from pragmatics